[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And I want to
introduce Nassim Haramein.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
It's so great to be here.
Woo.
Conscious Life Expo 2019.
[LAUGHTER]
Oy, yoy, yoy.
One of these expos will be in
orbit somewhere around Jupiter,
hopefully soon.
I am so glad to be here.
It's taken a lot for me
to be here this year.
So, like, I am--
you know, because
it's been crazy busy.
I don't know about your lives.
But everything seems to
be accelerating right now.
And you know, with acceleration
comes heat and friction.
And you know, as I
usually say, it's
all about friction
and fluid dynamics.
So tonight, we get a
little bit of the fluid.
We get the juices going, right?
Some lubrification of the
mind and some experiencing.
I'm really, really, really
excited to present tonight
a paper that just passed
peer review two days ago
and was accepted
for publication.
[APPLAUSE, CHEERING]
It's so exciting.
Here it is, in the Journal of
Scientific Research publishing.
Actually, the journal
itself, I believe,
is High Energy
Physics, Gravitation,
and Quantum Physics?
Quantum Cosmology.
And it's published with
Dr. Amira Val Baker.
Dr. Val Baker in the house.
Come over here.
[APPLAUSE]
Tell us a little bit about it.
>> Oh, my god.
Oh, oh, oh.
Tell us about it?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, my god.
- How long did it take?
>> It took four years to do.
Well, no, it took actually--
so I met Nassim
about four years ago.
And he said, can you--
we were going to write
this paper together.
And it took about six months.
But then things happened.
And then something
else happened.
And it was annoying because
it kept taking so long.
But in a way, it was good,
because along the way,
we found all these other
scientific results that
came out.
And that added to it.
And so now, it's
better than it could
have been if all those
obstacles hadn't happened.
So it was good.
>> Good job.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
So I'm really excited about it.
It sounds a little,
you know, catastrophic.
But it's a good thing.
The title of the paper
is "Resolving the Vacuum
Catastrophe, a Generalized
Holographic Approach."
And we're going to go through it
a little bit together tonight.
And the reason this talk is
called "The Universe and You"
is that by resolving this
problem in physics, which is
called the vacuum catastrophe--
[LAUGHS]
Actually, another part of our
team is Oliver over there.
Dr. Olivier Alirol is a
physicist from France.
Olivier, stand up.
[APPLAUSE]
Part of our team.
And on our way here,
my van, which I'm
a single dad half the time.
So my van had the traces
of my kids all over.
And so we tried to clean it
up real quick on the way here.
But we had a vacuum catastrophe.
[LAUGHS]
And so it was very
serendipitous to what
I'm going to present tonight.
It's a different kind of
vacuum, but it sucks as well.
[LAUGHTER]
And it really is about
a fundamental issue
that has occurred in physics as
a result of the physics we've
written over the past century.
It's a catastrophe because it
doesn't agree from one scale
to the other.
It has a scale at
the quantum level,
at the atomic level, at
the level of all the atoms
that makes up you,
that says something
very fundamental,
very deep, something
that says that
spacetime is quantized,
that spacetime is discrete.
And then there's
this catastrophe
that happens as you grow
the system towards planets,
and stars, and
galaxies, and universes,
where the math don't add up.
They don't not just a
little bit don't add up.
They really, really, really,
really, really, really
don't add up.
Right?
Because the vacuum catastrophe
is the largest oh shit moment
in physics ever.
Right?
It's a discrepancy of
122 orders of magnitude.
OK?
So you know, so
people understand--
I mean, orders of magnitudes,
they're exponential,
so it's a lot.
OK?
It's-- a lot doesn't
quite cut it.
You know, like, when you add
zeros in your bank account,
you--
You have four zeros after the 1.
It's like, OK, you can maybe,
you know, in California maybe
you can gas your car.
If you have five
zeros, it's better.
If you add another
0, now, at six zeros,
it's starting to get
real good, right?
But every zero you
add, it changes a lot.
Right?
If you add another is 0,
like, seven, eight zeros,
it's like, whoa.
Right?
But when you have
122 zeros, it's big.
And so if you-- imagine,
you're writing your equation.
And you end up at the
end of the equation,
and you're off by, like, 122
zeros, it's really not good.
So this has been
something that physicists
have been struggling with.
And basically,
it's the difference
between the density--
the vacuum density at the
quantum level and the vacuum
density at the universal
level, the universal density.
So let me explain
what that means.
Yes, this was accepted just now.
So this is a new presentation.
So you're going to
have to bear with me.
There might be a few
of those moments.
So I want to go to a place
because I just want to say--
how many people
here know my work?
Right on.
And you know, you've seen me
throughout the years talking
about, space is not empty,
the vacuum is full of energy,
quantum fluctuations
are occurring,
we can write physics on this.
Maybe instead of ignoring
this for 100 years,
maybe we should actually start
realizing that's probably
the source of everything.
You know?
Since it's very much
high energy intensity
in the vacuum and
the whole thing.
So you've heard me say all this.
Well, recently, in 2017, but
I discovered it only recently,
I actually saw what I believed
to be one of the most critical,
the most inspired, the
most fundamental thought
talk in physics I've ever seen.
And I've seen a lot of
physics talks, a lot.
You know, like,
trying to stay awake
after days and days of
listening to data and like,
and then the square root of
this over this da, da, da, da.
You know?
But nothing is more
fundamental than this talk that
was given by a brilliant,
brilliant physicist, Frank
Wilczek, Nobel Prize winner
in physics, a talk that
was titled the material--
I'm sorry.
The talk is called--
mmm, do I have it on the slide?
"The Materiality of the Vacuum."
Right?
The Materiality of the
Vacuum," I'm sorry.
I had a senior moment.
That's what happens after
30 years of physics.
And so I've been talking about
the materiality of the vacuum
all this time.
Wilczek discussed it so
directly, so bluntly,
so clearly.
It's such an amazing talk.
And it's such a big step
for the scientific community
to start talking this way.
And it takes a lot of
spine for a physicist
with the background
of Frank Wilczek
to start talking this way.
So I really want to honor him.
He's a brilliant man.
And here is a little
bit of his discussion.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- --is something else.
A vacuum, to us in
physics, people commonly
talk about a vacuum as what you
get if you remove everything
you can easily or even
with a lot of effort.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So when you remove everything
you can easily or even with
a lot of effort, what
he's meaning is, like,
he's not talking about
the vacuum, like,
your vacuum cleaner, or a vacuum
chamber in a laboratory where
you tried to remove
a lot of this stuff.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- But that, we've
learned, doesn't
deserve to be called
empty because it
contains a lot of structure,
a lot of activity.
And we can't
understand the behavior
of the things we do see
if we don't ascribe space
itself those properties.
So space is not a void."
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So space is not a void.
I mean, you know,
after all these years
of talking this
way, it really is
heartwarming to hear that level
of physicist talking this way.
Here's another extract.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- To put it another way, again,
it's a vacuum is not void.
Void.
- Now, I want to ask--
- The absence of particles,
the absence of excitations,
is not the absence of structure.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Not only is it that he's
saying that space is not empty
and that it's not a void, he's
saying not only is it not empty
and it's not a void,
but it's structured.
Right?
It has structure.
It has materiality.
It has a function in reality.
Because most of the
time, in physics,
this energy and the
structure of space
that you're bathing in
right now, that you're
made of-- you're made of
99.9999999% space, right?
That energy's in
you right now has
been ignored because it's
been thought that it was just
completely chaotic, stochastic,
completely incapable
of producing structure.
And as you saw throughout the
years, as I wrote my equations,
I showed that not only is
it producing structure,
but the structure it produced
is what we call matter,
is what we call reality.
Right?
It's what we call you.
So there comes the
most beautiful part
of Wilczek's discussion.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- This is another example.
So in that very strong sense,
we are ethereal beings.
We are children
of the ether, just
as fish are children of
the water, if you like,
and citizens of Siliconia
would be children of silicon.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Remember me throughout
the years giving the example
of a fish in the water would
never know there's water?
Like, if there's
water everywhere,
you wouldn't know it's there.
He talks about this.
He talks about
people of Siliconia,
if there was silica everywhere,
if space was a crystal,
nobody would know that
space is a crystal
because it would be everywhere.
And to them, it would
be like nothing.
Right?
And he used that example because
a crystal has structure and can
propagate--
information can propagate.
Energy can propagate.
Wave form can oscillate, can
propagate phonons and so on.
So he gives this
example in his talk.
So this is remarkable from Mr.
Wilczek telling us literally,
from the mainstream,
not from me,
we are children of the ether.
We are ethereal beings.
Right?
That's like let that sink,
because the world is changing,
folks.
Yeah, it's changing.
[APPLAUSE]
The opening is happening, right?
Because if we get all
these guys behind us,
now, we're going to
have some serious push,
some serious power.
Right?
So here, we saw throughout
the years that--
I used this energy to
describe the material world.
The structure of space,
the dynamic of space
that creates everything we
see is actually not something
that--
it's something you
can philosophize about
and you can talk about,
but you can actually
write physics on it.
You really can.
You can quantify it.
And you can quantify it
because it's pixilated.
That means that it's quantized.
That means that, at
the very fine level,
there's little bits
of information that
are very specific,
they are quantifiable.
OK?
So it's not just
like wow, it's cool,
it's like a fluid whatever.
But it's something
you can count.
OK?
It's something you
can write physics on.
It's something that you can
extrapolate and calculate,
compute, and see if it
matches our reality.
And it does.
Right?
How many people here
are familiar with
my holographic mass solution?
OK.
So basically, what
I've done is that I've
shown that this ether, this
structure of space itself,
is the source of the material
world, the source of the nuclei
of atoms and the electron,
that if I take a proton,
and I count how many of
these little pixels--
So spacetime has
these little pixels.
And if I count these
little pixels--
they're called Planck
Spherical Units.
And the reason this was
not discovered earlier
is because the typical way
the equations were written
is that they were written
in Planck squares and Planck
cubes.
And guess what.
The universe is just
not making cubed pixels.
[LAUGHTER]
It's not doing that, right?
It exists, then go for,
like, the typical application
of our computers.
It did a little bit
better than that.
It made spheres, right?
So I clearly took this
fundamental value.
Now, why is a Planck
pixel fundamental?
It's fundamental because
if a photon is moving,
you can imagine that it
can have long wavelengths.
When it's moving, it can
have very long wavelengths.
And these wavelengths
would be in the space
everywhere around us.
We know there's radio waves.
We know there's microwaves.
There's all kinds of stuff
in the space around us.
But then, there
would be wavelengths
that are getting shorter and
shorter and shorter and shorter
and shorter and shorter, and
with the frequency going up.
Wah!
You know, it's going up, the
shorter, shorter, shorter,
shorter, shorter, shorter.
And then eventually,
the distance
that a photon would travel
to go across the wavelength
would be faster than
the speed of light.
Right?
It reaches the speed of light.
And at that speed, then
it has that length.
That wavelength is the
shortest wavelength
a photon can travel
for that distance.
Does that make sense?
So there's a lower limit.
Now, am I saying that
the speed of light
is the limit of the universe?
Or that the Planck length is the
smallest thing in the universe?
No.
I'm saying this is a lower
limit for our universe
and our experience.
OK?
From our scale, our
relationship to the universe
will be the speed of light.
It's not an ultimate
speed limit.
It's only a boundary
condition to our experience,
just like the speed
of sound is a boundary
experience to our ear.
And when we break it,
we hear it, right?
We go through the sound wall.
So that little pixel is
then the fundamental pixel
of our universe relative to
the size of our universe.
If our universe had
a different size,
the pixel size
would be different.
Now, because of our
universe having this size,
and because of everything
in our universe
expanding at the same
time, then the relationship
stays the same.
So the pixel size has
the carrying capacity
of our universe because it's
a harmonic relationship.
The whole thing is
one bloody thing.
It's not like this
is that, and this
is that, because we do that.
We make boundaries.
For instance, we make boundaries
in science where we say,
this is biology, and this is
physics, and this is chemistry,
and this is psychology.
And this is-- do you
think the universe thinks
of itself that way?
Probably not, right?
It probably doesn't go,
oh, this is physics,
and this is biology.
So then there are
completely different rules.
Right?
It doesn't do that.
It's a continuum.
It goes from the Planck
pixel, from the foundation
of creation to the whole
universe in one swoop
continuum.
Right?
And we make the division
because of our tendency
to want to categorize
and analyze.
And then when we do
that-- that's a good thing
to do if we want to understand
the detail of a certain thing,
of a certain scale.
But if we forget
that that's connected
to all of the rest
of the stuff, then we
lose the global picture, the
universal picture of what
we're trying to understand.
So then it becomes
discontinuous, disconnected.
And we don't understand.
We lose pieces.
We understand details very
well in very specific parts,
but we don't understand
how it all works together.
So for instance, we say, this
is the electromagnetic field,
and this is gravity.
And this is mass,
and this is charge.
And we think that these things
are all different things.
But they're just the same
thing acting in different ways
in different circumstances.
Right?
It's one thing.
It's like Janis Joplin, you
know, it's all one big deal,
man.
Right?
It's not separate.
It's one continuum
that's in a process.
So clearly, I took, the
surface of a proton.
And I said, OK, well, how many
Plancks are on the surface?
How much information is on
the surface of this system?
How much information is on the
surface of this system in terms
of these little pixels?
Now, there's a lot of little
pixels, a lot, 10 to the 40th.
That's 10 with 40 zeros.
It's a big number.
OK?
On the surface.
That's just the
surface of a proton.
Now, a proton is
pretty dang small.
It's actually, like,
insanely small already.
You're made out of
100 trillion cells.
Each cell is made out
of 100 trillion atoms.
OK?
Like, integrate that.
100 trillion multiplied
by 100 trillion.
And that's the thing.
It's like, that's all
happening right now.
And like, it's happening
very, very well.
It's not confused.
Right?
[LAUGHTER]
It's highly structured.
If it got confused, even for,
like, a billionth of a second,
you would have a very,
very, very bad day.
[LAUGHTER]
It wouldn't take long, and
things would go very wrong.
Right?
There's I think 1,000 billion
billion chemical changes
every second to run the
100 trillion cells that
are in your body that are
dividing at the million cells
a second, just so
you can be here.
It's like, what's
this guy saying?
Right?
This is incredible, right?
This is non--
I mean, imagine.
The amount of
information transfer
that must happen during
that time for you
to continue to be here--
and you know, most of us, we
don't think about it twice.
We take it completely
for granted.
We're just like, god damn,
what is this crazy experience
I'm having?
Right?
It's like we go to work.
We come back from work.
We do this thing.
We do this whole life.
It just blew my mind
all my childhood.
I would, like, sit in the bus.
I kept on getting kicked out of
the school closest to my home.
So I was furthering
my education then.
And so I had to go
further and further.
And so I would sit in
the bus, and I would just
look at the people in the bus.
And I'd be wondering, like,
do any of these people
wonder how they even
got in this bus?
[LAUGHTER]
What is this thing
you're experiencing?
Because most people,
they just get born,
and then they do what
people tell them to do.
And then they just do
that all their life.
And then at the
end of their life,
maybe in the last few weeks,
when they get told, like,
you're kind of like out
of luck, like, it's--
talk to your family, and--
you know?
Maybe then, they go,
oh, what was this I just
did for the last 80 years?
Right?
What was that all about?
How did I get here.
You know?
It's like, shit, I only have
two weeks to figure it out.
[LAUGHTER]
So that always blew my mind.
I was like, is nobody asking,
like, what the heck is this?
They call it reality.
I don't know.
Pretty surreal to me.
Right?
And then it's like--
for me, it was OK.
But then when you realize
the miracle it is--
so now you have this
highly organized system.
And if you calculate how
fast the organization
for a human being to happen,
just one, in 13.7 billion years
since the so-called Big Bang
it's like, it doesn't add up.
It doesn't add up, like,
not anywhere close.
It's too complex.
Like, if it was all random--
It's not like particles
in the universe.
You know how the
universe is kind of big?
And it's kind of like empty?
You know, there's a
lot of space in it?
It's not like particles
in the universe
were, like, bumping into each
other, and by this great luck,
100 trillion of them bumped
into each other just right
to make the first cell.
Right?
Just right.
Like, they just like--
oh, 100 trillion of them
just hit just right.
Oh, the first cell.
And then it was like, oh,
a planet just ran into it.
Oh, well.
You know, let's just wait
another 13 billion years.
Right?
Never mind 100 trillion.
So it doesn't add up.
Random function doesn't add up.
So there's gotta be
something deeper.
The problem is when you
talk like that, then people,
especially religious
beliefs, start
to think you're talking about
god, that there's got to be
a god organizing all this.
So there's this guy
sitting on a throne.
He usually as a long
white beard, you know.
And he's sitting there.
For some reason, this guy is
able to organize all this shit,
sitting in his
throne, hanging out.
And if he's Christian,
probably he's
got a baseball bat,
because you're a sinner,
and you're going to mess up.
I know you're going to mess up.
I'm going to have to whack you.
But there's another option.
There's another option.
And that option is that there
is information feedback,
that it's not random.
The randomness that
appears to us, random
is just because we don't
have a large enough sample
of the information
or the structure
to see the non-randomness,
although, remarkably,
the people that think
that it's random
are themself evidence
of the non-randomness.
So you know, that's a problem.
That's why they don't
typically include themself
in the equation.
Right?
It's all random,
but just out there.
I got nothing to do with it.
So then you ask, like,
well, how did we get here?
How did we get here?
Oh, it was a
mathematical fluctuation.
That's just a technical
way to say it was a fluke.
It was a fluke that
the 100 trillion cells
got together and made us.
But the problem
with that is even
if that was remotely
possible mathematically,
it continues to be a fluke every
single billionth of a second.
Right?
Because it continues
to do the same thing.
It's very dedicated
random fluctuations.
[LAUGHTER]
It's on a serious
random mission.
Right?
Because it keeps on organizing.
It keeps being negentropic,
counterentropic.
It's not going towards disorder.
It seems to be going towards.
How can that be?
It can only be if you
have information feedback.
That is, that the
information is going out,
and then back, and then
out, and then back.
Iterations will produce
high level of complexity,
and high level of structure,
and high level of organization
very, very quickly.
And we have equations
to describe that.
Those are fractal equations.
Right?
So if you have feedback,
then the information--
then the universe clearly,
from any examination
of our biological sphere of
our being on this sphere,
of the animals on it,
clearly, that information--
clearly, the universe, then,
must be an information network.
Right?
It must be an
information structure,
which is transferring
information
across scale, because
it's organized
along very large scales.
It needs all the components
in all of the scales
to eventually make up a little
human being on the end that
goes, the heck happened?
How the heck did I get
here, sitting in the bus?
Whoa.
Right?
And then the being is
thinking, oh, yeah, you know,
well, there's the unconscious
and then there's the conscious.
And they call the
unconscious the part
that's running the
whole show, right?
Like, the thing that keeps
the 100 trillion cells going,
and that's keeping the heart
going, and the lungs going,
and all this stuff.
We call that the unconscious.
And then the part
that we call conscious
is like the part that's,
like, utterly confused
about the whole thing.
[LAUGHTER]
Right?
That part might be
the unconscious part.
OK?
Like the 0.000001 of a percent,
and then the 99.9999999%,
the space that contains
all the information,
that might be the
conscious part.
Right?
Because if you had the
to-do list of that part,
you'd be in deep
doo-doo really fast.
And I mean that literally.
OK?
Because that thing
is running the show.
And so there's two parts, right?
There's the part
that's external,
and there's the part
that's internal.
And this is something
I developed early on.
I was 11 years old when
I learned to meditate.
And I realized, wait, there's
a part that's outside of me,
and there's a part
that's inside of me.
There's an external world,
but there's an internal world.
And the two are valid.
There are two
different experiences.
And so eventually, I realized,
well, maybe the world
is like that.
So when I counted the
number of pieces of data
on the surface of
a one proton, I
thought, well, what about the
data that's inside the proton?
And this is unusual because
when you do this kind
of calculation-- it's called
the holographic principle--
you're only usually supposed
to consider the surface.
But I thought, what
about the volume?
What about what's inside, the
amount of information inside?
So then I counted
how many were inside.
I know we're revising.
But I'm just making sure
we're all on the same page.
And so I counted
how many are inside.
And when I did, something
remarkable happened.
Because as you
see on this slide,
there's 10 to the 60th inside.
And when you have an energy
level of a little Planck pixel,
so imagine a little
Planck pixel is like--
don't think of an
oscillation as something
that's going up and down.
That's incorrect.
Nothing in the universe
goes up and down like that.
OK?
No such thing.
Just as much as nobody in the
universe can describe a circle.
That's not-- that doesn't exist.
It's an illusion of the sensory
system of the human being.
As soon as you start drawing
the circle, and by the time
you're finished, your like,
thousands, millions of miles
from where you
started the circle.
So it's not a circle anymore.
Huh?
Did you ever think of that?
It's a big problem.
Right?
So when you talk about this--
so when I was thinking--
what was I thinking?
Yes.
Don't think of the
little oscillator
as going up and down.
Because going up
and down is only
true on a two-dimensional screen
of an oscilloscope, right?
So we all get shown
this wave thing,
which is completely artificial.
Because the photon,
or the electron,
or whatever you're
measuring, I guarantee
you, is not doing that.
It's doing this.
Right?
And so the Planck length
comes from the Planck energy
or the Planck constant.
And the Planck constant, H-bar,
is H, the energy, over 2 pi.
That is, the energy over
a rotation, or an angular
momentum.
So it's a little spin, right?
So think of all
these little spins.
And they're all going together.
And now, you have a lot
of the little spins,
like little vortices,
all spinning together,
a lot of them.
So now visualize-- this is what
I call the smoothie universe.
Visualize a proton is like all
these little spins together.
You get a little ball of
spin, because they're all
spinning in a coordinated
manner in that region of space,
like a smoothie in the morning.
Where you see all this good,
organic vegetables and fruits
you've put in your smoothie,
you see all the bits going by,
like think of it that way.
They're all spinning together.
And then when they spin
together like that,
they create a little
coherent region in space.
And we happen to
call that a proton.
When I calculated the
energy or the information
inside that proton, one
proton had the energy
or the information of all the
other protons in the universe
so that every bit of information
in the rest of the universe
was present in one atom.
Truly holographic.
So now, integrate this.
Your 100 trillion cells
multiply by 100 trillion atoms.
And each of the
nuclei of these atoms,
even if they were hydrogen
and had only one proton,
each one would have 10 to the
60th little protons in it,
little Plancks in
it, 10 to the 60th.
So you have this little
oscillator, right?
E equals mc squared.
So when an oscillator
is oscillating,
you can calculate
its energy, its mass.
The mass of a little Planck
has 10 to the 5 grams.
It's a lot because the thing--
the little thing is, like,
turning really, really fast.
Right?
It's turning at the speed of
light, so it's a lot of energy.
Right?
Then you calculate 10 to
the 60th multiplied by 10
to the minus 5 grams to get
the mass or the energy of all
the Plancks inside one proton.
You get 10 to the 55, which
is the mass of the universe.
Right?
So you get the mass of the
universe inside a proton.
So that pretty well makes
a proton a black hole.
Just saying.
OK?
Did you know that you're made
out of little black holes?
That kind of like got
past the mainstream.
They missed that one.
[LAUGHTER]
Why?
Because when they
measured a proton,
they don't measure
the mass of a black--
they don't measure the
mass of the universe.
Are do they?
[LAUGHTER]
Well, they kind of do, but
they don't know they are.
Because when they measure
the mass of the proton,
they can only measure
the energy that's
able to come out of
that little black hole.
So it's divided by the
surface of the little Planck.
So I gotta divide the surface
by the volume, meaning,
imagine the
boundaries restricting
how much the universe
is able to talk to you.
You're on the outside,
looking at the surface.
And you're going, oh,
it's not very energetic.
And meanwhile, the
universe is inside there.
It reminds me a
little bit of what
I was talking to the
Spanish community
this afternoon, when I did my
talk to the Spanish community.
I was telling them
that the human--
the universe is singing.
It's singing in all these
amazing harmonic relationships
at all the scales?
But we don't hear it.
Some people at Conscious
Life Expo hear it.
Right?
They call it the little voice,
the little intuition, the gut
feeling, right, that thing
that you're all following?
That's how you ended up at
Conscious Life Expo, going,
maybe they can tell me how
the hell I got down here.
[LAUGHTER]
Right?
This little voice,
I was telling them,
that little voice
is not so little.
On the other side of the
veils of your consciousness,
on the other side of the
wall, that little voice
is screaming, like, dude!
Hello over there!
You are part of a universe!
[LAUGHTER]
I know you're in your
bus going to work.
But maybe you should consider
the rest of the universe.
Right?
That little voice is screaming.
And you, on the other side
of the wall, is going, huh,
I think I'm hearing something.
Right?
Well, just like that, the vacuum
structure inside the proton
contains all the
information in the universe,
but only a little bit
is able to emerge,
a little teeny voice of the
whole singing of the universe
is able to emerge
over the surface.
And when I calculated that way--
it took me 30 years
to figure it out.
I mean, seriously, 30
bloody years, right?
I mean, we're talking
like complex equations,
you know, relativistic
equations, like Einstein field
equation, tensors equations.
I mean, you're like, algebra up
the yin-yang, like, oh, my god.
And then I come down to, like,
a volume over the surface ratio?
[LAUGHTER]
Oh, my god.
Really?
At the time I figured this
out, my kid was five or six.
And I explained it to him.
And he looked at me.
He goes, really, Papa?
That's all?
I'm like, yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
He goes, oh, my god.
Why did it take you so long?
I'm like, dude.
Then the other guy
goes, are you sure
the other guys don't
think this the same?
And I'm like, no, o, I
really checked it out.
They really didn't
figure that all out yet.
So when I solved this,
it came out just right.
It came out just right for
the mass of the proton,
the mass of the proton, and
then, eventually, the electron,
which I wrote with Dr.
Val Baker and Olivier.
We came out with all
the table of elements.
It all comes out.
And it's really precise.
Because then I could output
the radius of the proton.
And oh, my god, the radius
of the proton, the equation
outputted was 4% smaller than
the standard model radius.
It was 4% smaller than
what they were measuring.
And I was like--
you know, 4% in quantum theory
is like another universe.
So 4% wrong is really bad.
So I had the choice in the
paper to say it's 4% wrong,
or it's 4% right and
you guys are wrong.
And I went for
the second option.
[LAUGHTER]
Because it was right for
all the rest of the stuff
I was calculating, so I
figure it's got to be right.
And you know,
unknowingly to me--
I didn't know.
But at the time,
they were trying
to measure the radius of
the proton more precisely.
And within months
of me publishing,
they published papers
with the new value
for the radius of the proton.
And guess what?
It was 4% smaller.
And my equation, to this
day, is the most precise
theoretical prediction of
the radius of the proton.
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah, baby.
[LAUGHTER]
That's what I thought.
And so I was excited.
And then we got the electron,
and then that came out.
And then we realized, well,
OK, what about the universe?
The mass of the universe?
And this is the paper
we just finished.
So we started it shortly after
the prediction for the radius
of the proton in 2013.
And we were excited to see
that actually, Einstein
published just after me.
[LAUGHS]
It's remarkable that
Einstein can publish
across the veil of the grave.
But he's that kind of guy.
In 2013, they found a paper that
had been lost from Einstein.
And that paper talked
about an alternative
to the Big Bang Theory
in which Einstein
solved for the universe
having a vacuum,
energized vacuum energy
that was producing protons
and expelling protons from our
universe at a constant rate
so that it was a
steady state universe.
And that's how matter
production was occurring.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> I'm sorry?
So Einstein, in 2013,
published a paper
that described the
universe as a steady state
universe in which the vacuum
fluctuation, this energy
in the vacuum, was
creating protons,
and protons were escaping
our universe at the same rate
so that you have a steady
state creation universe, where
continuous creation
is occurring.
And he probably
didn't publish it
because he knew he was going
to get tomatoes thrown at him.
So it took until 2013, you know.
And it was great,
because then, it
was supporting exactly where
Dr. Val Baker and I were going.
[APPLAUSE]
So it occurred to me that--
I think we cited it too.
Did we cite it?
We cited it.
We're citing Einstein 2013.
[LAUGHTER]
So nice.
So nice of him to
give me that support.
A little thumbs
up from Einstein.
And so we considered
what happens if we
were to take this solution.
So the solution,
again, is applicable to
not only to the proton
or the electron,
but to all black holes, so
that it became clear to me--
so I can now put the mass of any
black hole using this equation,
just talking about
the information that's
contained in it and
on the surface.
Right?
So let me make this clear.
That means that
mass, gravity, is
a function of information
transfer across the event
horizon of a black hole,
whether at the atomic level
or at the cosmological level.
Whatever we call mass,
which is completely
undefined in physics--
You know, we have this
wonderful equation from Einstein
that E equals mc squared--
we all know that one, right?
And it's beautiful.
But it's absolutely,
completely useless
to tell us anything
fundamental about all
the variables in the
equation, meaning
we don't know what m is.
So-- and we certainly don't
know why c going at c.
Right?
So that means on the
other side of the equal,
we don't know what E is.
So we have a nice equivalence
between three unknowns.
It's all equal to each other,
but we have no clue what it is.
[LAUGHTER]
So now, from this
equation, we're
starting to realize,
oh, it's information.
Right?
It's information moving
through the field.
And so that is mass.
Gravity is most likely the
movement of information
through the field.
And I mean, I am using
"most likely" loosely,
because we clearly see
that in this equation.
It is the result of
information moving.
And charge and
electromagnetism and so on.
So now, we start
to see, it's just
the universe's juice flowing.
I told you it was
going to get juicy.
[LAUGHTER]
It's just the universe's
juice flowing.
And when it flows, life emerges.
[CLICKS TONGUE]
I could take some
very large left turns
into a whole bunch of
very eccentric ideas,
talking about juices
flowing, producing life.
But we're not going to go there.
[LAUGHTER]
But clearly, this dynamic
of space, you can imagine,
has a certain
amount of pressure,
meaning if the juices
that are flowing
are restricted in some
way, pressure builds.
OK?
And when it builds,
it's not so good.
It starts pushing on things.
Right?
Things expand.
Let's just put it that way.
And when they expand,
we can calculate
what the density change
happen as they do, right?
As a body changes size,
as the volume expands,
the density drops.
So we took the
proton, and we said,
OK, let's grow a proton to
the size of the universe.
And when we did,
remarkable solution
of the expansion of the proton,
we calculated the density.
And what we got was the correct
density for our universe.
And that's what we published.
[APPLAUSE]
But we didn't just get the
correct density approximately.
We didn't just get somewhat
of the correct mass
for the universe.
We got exactly the critical
mass of the universe.
This is how it's called, the
critical mass for the universe,
not just the baryonic
mass, the critical mass.
What is the critical mass?
Well, that is the problem
of the vacuum catastrophe.
Right?
The difference between
the universal density
and the vacuum density
at the quantum level
is 122 orders of magnitude.
So there's this fight
between the astrophysicists
and the quantum physicists.
One says, oh, it's 10 the 93
grams per centimeter cubed.
The other one's
saying, oh, no, it's
10 to the minus 30 grams
per centimeter cubed.
So you know, it's completely
a big problem in physics.
And now, we can show it's just
because the density changed
between a proton
and the universe.
Right?
When a proton expands to
the sides of the universe,
the density drops.
So the two are correct.
They're just at
different scales.
Does that make sense?
But when we did that, something
more remarkable happened.
That's what Amira
was alluding to.
Like, we didn't
publish right away.
It just wasn't happening.
Amira couldn't tie me down to a
chair long enough in four years
to finish a paper.
I felt like it was unfinished.
I had the little
voice screaming.
You missed it!
Right?
What happened is that
when we solved it,
we found the critical mass
of the universe-- that
is, the baryonic mass,
that is, all the particles
in the universe plus dark
matter and dark energy.
It gave the exact
mass of the universe,
unlike the standard model
of the universe that we're
using right now that
ends up giving only 4%
of the mass of the universe,
missing 96% of the mass.
So you have an equation that's
wrong by 96% on the mass,
the size of the universe.
It's somewhat significant.
OK?
Like at school, when you do
exams, if you're wrong by 96%,
usually you don't pass.
You're, like, shit out of luck.
You got to do the
course again, right?
Try again.
You do that too many times,
usually, they tell you,
you know, maybe you should try,
like, bowling or you know--
But somehow, the
standard model has
been accepted, that,
oh, well, we're just
going to fill in the 96%
with shit we can't see
and we can't measure.
So like that, we're
good, you know.
You can't measure.
You can't see it.
Very useful, right?
Just throw that in,
and you're good, right?
Oh, look!
Now the equation is so accurate.
[LAUGHTER]
And so this idea of dark
matter, and dark energy--
and then lately,
there's been even more.
Basically, when you have
a problem in physics,
you just put "dark" in front
of the name, and you're good.
So lately, dark photons has
appeared in the literature.
I mean, photons are
particles of light.
What the hell is a dark photon?
[LAUGHTER]
Just reading the title,
I was having convulsions.
So this is really good that
when we render our equation, all
of a sudden, we get the
correct mass of the universe
and we don't have to put
any dark numbers in front
of our equation.
Right?
We get rid of the dark shit.
And basically, we can describe
that the universe basic--
So imagine this.
You have a little proton.
And it expands to the
size of the universe.
And inside is all these
fluids, the juices, right?
The information
juice is in there.
So imagine, as it expands, the
turbulence that's generated,
the vortices that are
generated in the super fluid
structure of spacetime.
And all these vortices
produce what we call mass.
Starts to make sense?
And when we calculate it
like that, it adds up.
You get the right mass.
Isn't that remarkable?
I am really happy with it.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
So we got the critical
mass, which is 9.24 10
to the 55 grams.
And this is the vacuum
density for the ones
that I am sure many of you
are interested in calculating.
And so this is the
density of the structure.
And what's remarkable as well is
that, when you're done, you go,
oh, wow, check this out.
If you rearrange the
equation we wrote,
it turns out that it
describe exactly the radius
of a black hole.
So not only you're made
out of little black holes,
but you live in one.
And you know, it's been
said before to physicists--
am I supposed to
understand all this sign
language you're giving me?
OK.
All right.
That's it?
Holy schmoly, how
did that happen?
OK, I'm going to
talk really fast.
So this structure, this equation
tells us that actually--
you know, because when
you talk to physicists--
and it's been said
to physicists,
it's been pointed out to
physicists before that,
like, the universe
seemed to obey
the solution for a black hole.
That is, the mass relative
to the surface, to the size,
is dense enough.
Although the
universe is not very
dense from our perspective,
it's dense enough
to be a black hole.
And the physicists'
answer usually
is, well, it's kind of good,
but it's not quite that.
It's off by about a factor of 2.
So we can discard it.
It's a coincidence.
It's kind of close.
But it's not close enough.
And what I'm showing here
is that, well, that's
true, because they
never included
the 96% dark matter and dark
energy in the equations.
So they only took
the matter part
and then plugged it into
the black hole equations,
and said, ah, you see?
It doesn't add up.
But then on the other
equation over there,
they have to add dark
matter and dark energy
to make the universe
the way it does.
So you can't do it there
and not do it over here.
Right?
So it's a perfect black
hole, perfect, exact.
Like, not approximately,
but exact.
And so that matches the proton.
That matches the
nuclei of atoms.
Atoms and universes are the
same thing at different scales.
OK?
And so you might have a hard
time visualizing the black hole
universe because when you've
been taught about black holes,
you've been taught that
black holes are this really
dense thing that
sucks up everything.
You know, like Olivier
and I were looking for one
when we were trying to clean
up the car the other day
because our vacuum didn't work.
Well, black holes don't have
that crazy density idea.
They don't have to be.
So this is a simple
equation showing you,
using the holographic
math solution,
showing you that if we--
or using the standard
equation, if you wanted to--
showing you that
if we actually put
the atmosphere of the air of
our planet in our solar system
so that our solar
system had the density
of the atmosphere of our planet,
it would be a black hole.
Right?
Because if the black--
if the structure is large
enough, the density can be low.
It still has the mass
necessary to be a black hole.
OK?
So it's remarkable.
We live in scalar black holes.
We live in singularities
at every point in space.
And these equations tells
us something even much more
fundamental about creation,
about the dynamics
of a universe production and
the genesis of universes.
So why did the proton expand?
Right?
All the protons don't expand
to the size of the universe.
If you had a proton
inside of you
that expanded to the size
of the universe right now,
it wouldn't be good.
It just wouldn't be good, right?
So protons in fact, are the most
stable particles we know of.
We've never seen a
proton decay whatsoever.
We see orbitals
of protons decay,
but we don't see proton decay.
They don't-- they
just keep on ticking,
like way better than
the Energizer bunny.
They just go, right?
For billions of years,
they don't slow down.
They don't decay.
So why would a proton
all of a sudden decay
to the size of the universe?
And it occurred to us
that the protons that
would escape a universe--
think of Einstein, 2013,
publishing from the other side.
A proton that
escapes our universe
would enter a larger universe
with a much lower pressure,
with a much lower density.
So that proton would
be out of equilibrium.
Remember, the proton
inside our universe
has the same amount of
information inside as all
the stuff outside of itself.
So it's absolutely stable.
But a proton that escapes
our universe all of a sudden
would arrive in the universe
with much lower density,
it would just expand super fast,
really, really, really fast,
and create a
universe of its own.
So you could imagine the
surface of universal black hole.
If you were a giant,
bigger than the universe,
looking at that
universe, you would
see forming particles
coming off it,
expanding into new universes in
a continuous matter creation,
in a continuous
universal creation
right in front of your eyes.
And that was to answer George
Noory's question at the panel
today.
There is no beginning,
and then there is no end.
It is a continuum of creation.
And that takes a
while to integrate.
It takes a while to
integrate no beginning.
Our mind always wants
to start somewhere.
But that's a concept of
man, not of universe, right?
It's this continuous
juices flowing.
And so this is not
such a crazy idea.
I know I have kind of an
eccentric approach to physics.
And you know, there is a lot
of really good physicists
in the world.
And I make fun.
But it's an amazing
thing that we can even
consider these ideas,
folks, and that we
can hear on the little
Earth, on the little--
solve this equation
and understand
what the universe is doing.
It's remarkable, right?
So I make fun.
But this is Susskind,
probably one
of the greatest theoretical
physicists as well,
with Wilczek, right there
with Wilczek and others,
talking about this possibility.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- What we may be able to do
is to look into the past,
and by looking into
the past discover
that our universe was born from
one of these bubble nucleation.
This is possible, that we will
be able to look into the past
and see the event which
gave rise to our universe
being a nucleation from
another point in the landscape.
That is possible.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So he's talking about these
bubble universes that could be
emerging from other universes,
this fractal creation
of universes that could be
occurring in our universe.
It's a completely different
picture than the Big Bang.
The idea that
everything happened
from the point of nothing
to boom, all of a sudden,
all the particles
in the universe, all
the time and space in
one big fart is unlikely.
Right?
- It's a variation of Genesis.
- I'm sorry?
>> It's a variation of
the Book of Genesis.
>> It's a variation of the
Book of Genesis, very good.
You find this
bubble universe idea
in many ancient texts, this
continuous creation concept.
The Big Bang violates
most laws of physics,
including conservation
law, relativity, you
know, big problems with
the Big Bang, including,
I don't see how it relates so
well to the Book of Genesis.
Because the Book of Genesis
talks about a universe being
creating very rapidly.
Well, the value of the
Big Bang and the value
of a proton expanding
from another universe
would be very much similar,
in your observation-- where's
the person that's talking?
There we go.
Would be very much
the same observation
from our point of view, right?
But there would be one variable.
And in one case, you have linear
time with a start and an end.
In the other case, you
have eternal creation.
And the Bible is pretty
clear on the eternal thing
that keeps on going.
Right?
They call it god.
So I wouldn't go with
eternal model more than the--
if I was trying
to match to the--
I just want to finish, and
then we'll take questions.
So here, such a universe
that would emerge from ours
would be entangled.
Susskind and others are coming
to this conclusion as well.
All the protons,
all the particles
are entangled through little
wormholes in Planck's field.
This fluid, this super fluid
produces little vortices,
strings that connects
all the pieces.
And so when a piece of that one
universe that's entangled with
all of the other pieces in
that universe comes out--
because remember,
it's all one thing--
when it comes out,
it's still entangled.
So it just entangled
two universes.
And then the part
of the particles
that come out of
that new universe
entangle with new
universes, and nah and nah.
And then guess what?
Particles are falling
into other universes
and entangled in
them even stronger.
The whole thing becomes
this incredible network
of informational, universal,
bubbled, fractal expansion
of creation that you have access
to every one of your protons.
And that's what you
call your subconscious.
And just a little bit
of the information
that goes across the boundary
is what you call your conscious,
the little bit that
goes, how did I get here?
Right?
So then when you
become aware of this,
you realize, wow, we're
all connected, for real.
And every node in the network
is observing the universe
from its own perspective.
Everybody sees this mic
Everybody sees everything
from its own perspective
because we're in different
coordinates in spacetime.
So although we're
all connected, we
don't all see the same thing.
Right?
You see this side of the mic.
I see this side of the mic.
If I have a wheel spinning
between you and I,
I'll say it's going
clockwise, and you'll say,
oh, it's going counterclockwise.
Who's right?
Is it going at all?
Because if I had those vectors,
they cancel out, folks.
[LAUGHTER]
So all perspectives produce
specific sets of information
in specific coordinates
in spacetime
which have specific interaction
with the universe, that
is, specifically feeding
information to the universe
from their perspective.
And it is all of the
perspectives together
that produces the reality
that we experience.
Right?
So no isolation is possible.
So any law of physics that
starts within an isolated
system, you can scrap.
All right?
So that we are all connected.
And now-- but then
you say, well,
can I write physics on
everything being connected?
That means anything I
measure or calculate,
I've got to consider
everything else.
Yes, you can.
I just showed it to you.
It gives the correct answer.
Right?
Because it's in
bits of information
localized in a region of space.
Each bit--
So you can say, I have
a frame of reference.
I have a frame of reference.
I have a frame of reference,
all these frame of references.
But then you can say,
hey, I'm not just one.
I'm 100 trillion cells.
I'm 100 trillion
frame of references.
And experience
those frames, right?
Because I'm connected to them,
obviously, since it makes me.
And then I can say, wait,
I'm 100 trillion multiplied
by 100 trillion frame of
reference at the atomic level,
each one experiencing
the universe
from its own perspective.
And it's the correlation of
all these frames together--
we see the fractal thing--
that makes me, all
the frames, just
like it's the correlation
of all the frames
of all the things
in the universe that
makes the universe.
Just the same.
You can do that same
thing at all scales.
And so you are tapping into
this field of information.
You are feeding it.
You are feeding it
your perspective.
And your perspective matters.
And I mean that literally.
It is feeding energy,
information to the field.
And so consciousness-- and
that will be the subject
of my talk on Monday.
Consciousness-- and
we'll experiment
with that because I built
little cool technology to mess
with the information transfer
in the juice field of creation.
Consciousness is a
flow of information
through the bio-oscillating
structure of your being.
All of the cells, all of
the atoms, all of the cells,
and all of the organization, all
of the biorhythms of your body,
like the heart beating,
the lungs expanding,
the spinal cord fluid going up
and down, expanding your skull,
all this is creating you.
And that biofield, that
oscillating, bio-crystal
structure that you are, you can
tune to different frequencies
and get different
sets of information
like you can tune a radio
station to Radio Moscow
or to George Noory.
And so what that means is that
you have an infinite potential
of influencing the universe,
and the universe has
an infinite potential
on influencing you.
Do not forget that second
part of the equation.
OK?
I know there's a lot of
people here going around,
like, you're creating
your reality.
Yeah, that's half the equation.
The other half is that
reality is creating you.
Right?
So it's a feedback.
So it's not like you
can just draw whatever
you want in there,
and then it comes back
exactly the way you want it.
If it was that, it
would be really easy.
You would solve that really
quick, get everything you want.
And then you'd be
bored for eternity.
It'd be like, what do I do now?
I got everything I want.
I'm shit out of luck.
I can't learn anything.
I'm shit-- right?
But when you feed the
information to the field,
then it's modified by the rest
of the things that are feeding
information in the field.
And then it comes
back to you, modified
by the rest of the universe.
And that makes it so
that you have to adjust.
And then you feed
back your experience,
and then you adjust, and you
feed back, and you adjust.
And so the system is
self-driven, self-organizing,
fractal complexity
going to infinity.
Wow.
That's exciting, right?
[APPLAUSE]
So humanity is
awakening to this truth.
And it's awakening not just as
philosophy, it's awakening--
you just saw some of the
most revered scientists
on the planet arriving
to these conclusions.
You are children of
the ether, right?
And they're excellent thinkers.
They're excellent
physicists, brilliant people
that can lead humanity
to a whole new level.
We're getting there.
Like, we are getting there.
It's true.
I know you've been
coming here for 14 years,
and you're like,
dude, are we evolving,
or are we just like spinning
our wheels over here?
We're just, like, the
same group of weirdos.
[LAUGHTER]
If this dude at this booth tries
to sell me one more crystal--
[LAUGHTER]
We are growing.
We are evolving.
It's happening, folks.
It really is.
And part of the evidence
that's happening
is that you see it emerge at
the highest level of thinking
on our planet.
And you know, of
course, technology
can be developed from this.
Of course, some
amazing technology
can be developed from this,
technology that will bring us
to the stars, that will give us
infinite amount of energy, that
will free us from the shackles
of gravity, that will allow us
to have infinite
amount of resources
and free humanity
from the destruction
that it's producing
in its environment
so that it can survive.
This is the key.
There is no other way.
This is the path.
This is the discovery of the
fundamental connected nature
of the universe and the energy
available to us as a result.
Right?
This is happening, folks.
It's happening.
And people are realizing.
And it needs support.
It needs your support,
every one of you.
And I don't just
mean financially.
I mean in your consciousness,
in your awareness,
in your time that you
spend every day connecting
with the universal connected
structure of space,
that every moment you can
spend connecting within you,
listening to the music of the
universe, removing the veils,
opening.
Every one of your
efforts, you coming here,
every one of your
efforts matters.
And technology is
starting to emerge
from the corporations and the
efforts of our research group.
Community, the Resonance Project
Foundation, we have a course,
the Delegate program.
And we just launched the
Delegate program in French.
We welcome the French community
to our global community
at the Resonance Project.
But this is more
than just a course.
This is a community
that is growing.
We meet every month.
And we talk about
all this stuff.
And you can ask me
questions, and we
have a wonderful, amazing time
developing all this together.
So participate.
And then we go across the world
to ancient civilization sites,
sites that clearly shows
that some people a very
long time ago figured this
out on our planet and left
remains that are far more
ancient than what was first
associated with them.
And so the next trips
are to Rapa Nui.
It's going to be amazing.
We just-- we did Egypt, Peru.
We're doing the Orion
Belt on the Earth.
And Rapa Nui is the
end of the belt.
And so we're doing that
in April or May, April.
And then-- oh, yeah, spring.
Sorry.
And then this
summer, we're going
to gather in Santa Cruz for
an amazing time together
and development and discussion
with all the research group.
And then Mexico.
This is our research team.
We have amazing scientists
working on this,
and it's growing very fast.
Dr. Val Baker that's here.
Johanna, Johanna over there.
Stand up, Johanna.
[APPLAUSE]
Amazing, enlightened doctor.
And Ines, PhD in
physics, chemistry.
William is not here.
Jeremy?
Not here.
And Olivier.
But we have more than that.
We have a large staff
working across three
different corporations.
The Resonance Science Foundation
is our non-profit corporation.
And Torus Tech is our
for-profit research laboratory.
And then ARK is a
company that's starting
to bring some of that
technology out into the world.
I'd like to invite all of
our staff onstage right now.
Come on, you guys.
[APPLAUSE]
Chris, Brian,
Johanna, here we go.
Teresa, director of the
Resonance Science Foundation
Academy, Scott Brown, chief
technology officer, Chris,
our CEO at ARK and Torus Tech.
And then Andrea that
makes it possible
for us to have a clue what
we're supposed to do when.
Right?
>> On the subconscious
of the group.
>> Yeah, I'm the subconscious.
>> On the subconscious.
Yeah, you're the subconscious
of the whole thing.
Brian, CEO of the Resonance
Science Foundation.
And of course, Maura that
can do 2 million things
at the same time
across all universes.
Thank you so much,
everybody, for being there.
These guys work
tirelessly to make
this happen because they're
not just there for a paycheck.
They work so that humanity
can go to the next level.
So thank you so much.
And nothing of this could
be possible without you.
So thank you to you for being
here, and supporting this,
and making it happen.
[APPLAUSE, CHEERING]
And we have a table
back there you
can go to, and
come to our booth,
and come and check
out the Residence--
the ARK crystals and the
technology that's developing.
Come on Monday, and we can
talk about it some more.
OK, you guys, thank you.
>> Come see us after.
>> Good job.
>> Thank you.
You know, because I keep
giving these talks by myself,
because they just throw me
in the teeth of the lion.
And they go, oh, you're
good, you can do it.
But I couldn't do
it without them.
I could not do it without them.
It's not a one-man band.
[APPLAUSE]
And I couldn't do
it without you.
So I'm sure there's
not too many questions.
Let's do some questions.
Go ahead.
>> Inside it.
>> OK, we need a mic
for the questions.
Do we have an extra mic?
Right, so I'll give you my mic.
And I'll use the
one on the podium.
>> All right.
Yeah, Euler's formula, part 1.
The second question is--
>> Euler's formula, yeah,
very good, very good.
>> The second point
is, in science,
you have facts and you
have interpretations.
It's useful to distinguish
between the two.
>> Of course.
>> As far as the facts are
shown regarding the spinning
vibrations that
manifest protons,
what's interesting to consider
about that is that spinning
vibration assumes that that
equidistant circular motion
revolves around a
singularity point.
And that singularity
point in and of itself
doesn't take up any
space on its own.
In other words, one could
look at that singularity point
as a zero point
of-- that could be
a fractal of the universal
mind, an infinitesimal.
In other words, an
interpretation of this theory
would be that it is mind,
and that energy is thought,
and that is how thought
manifests matter.
>> Right.
That's why you'd have a
singularity at the center
of the atom, right?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
Now, of course, if you
have angular momentum,
if you have circular
motion, it's
because there is a
gravitational field.
Otherwise, it goes straight.
Right?
It's held to the center.
So that means that
consciousness is information
flowing towards the
center, the way you
made this interpretation.
And so then consciousness act
on itself and radiate out.
Your body radiates
thermodynamically,
and you do things that make
it radiate thermodynamically
throughout the day.
It could be some very strong
thermodynamic radiation
at night as well for
some various reasons.
But there is continuous
radioactivity--
I mean, thermodynamic activity.
And so you can imagine that
the information flowing out
is the electromagnetic
field, the thermal function
of the singularity
of the black hole.
And the two feed
back onto itself.
And that's why it
goes from the edge,
circulating information to the
center, and back to the edge.
And the system is self driven
in a continuous feedback, speed
forward loop, creating
the spin of creation.
Nice.
And I'll definitely
consider Euler's equations.
Thank you.
Over there.
Can you pass the mic?
>> Hi, just a quick
comment and a question.
It sounds like anyone that
master's interstellar travel
has had to understand
information and consciousness.
And that would
help to explain why
there is so much
what we would call
paranormal phenomena in
connection with UFOs,
because it's all of one piece.
>> Right.
I think, like, a
lot of the things
we call para phenomenon
are just physics
we haven't understood yet.
Right?
The stuff we call
spirituality, or like,
you know, all these esoteric
knowledge and so on, I think,
is just physics that we haven't
wrote the equations for yet.
>> Right.
And the quick question
is, when a proton escapes
to form another
universe, is that
governed by quantum tunneling?
>> OK, that's a
complex question.
Is it governed by
quantum tunneling?
Partly.
But it depends how you
define quantum tunneling.
Because it's not
fully defined, right?
So it is in the function in
which the entanglement produces
a correlation between
places in space.
So there's a quantum function
in information transfer
across the boundary of
the entanglement that
would define--
so basically, are you
asking if this system then
is predetermined?
>> I'm asking more if there
is a barrier to escaping
the universe?
Classically, it would
be a hard barrier.
But quantum mechanically,
there would be tunneling.
>> That's right.
Yes.
>> I'm just wondering if that
is an instance when the proton
escapes the black hole of this
universe to form another one.
>> Right.
Yes.
Very good, that's-- what
I'm saying is that there is
functions in the structure
of space time that makes it
so that at the event horizon,
right where the inside
of the event horizon
interacts with the surface,
or the outside of
the event horizon,
there's an information
correlation exchange that
produces this tunneling
effect, this exchange between
the outside and the inside,
which is something you see even
at the biological level
on the surface of cells.
And so it's very much--
you can think of it
as quantum tunneling.
But it's more--
it has more to do
with the geometry, the structure
of the geometry of the event
horizon going through
transformation and correlation.
>> Thank you.
>> My pleasure.
>> Thank you very much.
My question, is there actually
information transfer, actually
information communication?
Because you are talking
about entanglement.
And there is actually
no communication.
There is information transfer.
It has happened--
maybe you could
say it has happened before.
>> Right.
So when these
universes are created,
there is actually no
information transfer
as far as I can understand.
Is that right?
>> No.
>> Can you explain that?
>> Right.
So think of it this way.
You know how you have
these systems, where
you have a bunch of
balls on strings,
and then you pull one
ball, and you let it
go, and whack the other balls.
And they don't move, but
the other ball on the end
goes like this.
Right?
You can think of it a
little bit like that,
that if all volumes are one
volume because they're all
entangled, any variation
in any of the volume
has a correlated effect on all
other volumes in the universe.
This is why entanglement
occurs in the first place.
Now, the reason why--
the idea is that
if those are not
traversable in
terms of information
is because there is decoherence.
Now, decoherence is an
illusion from our perspective,
from our point of observation.
So we say this particle
on the end of my finger
is not correlated or is
not entangled with that one
over there.
Right?
So we have this impression
that when two particles are
entangled, if one is
observed, it decoheres
from the entanglement.
And so there is no
information transfer.
Although when I modify
this one, this one
modifies instantaneously, even
if it's across the universe.
However, the assumption
is that you always
have the two ends of
the entanglement, which
is incorrect,
meaning this particle
on the end of my finger can be
entangled with another particle
on the other side the universe.
And when I tickle
this one, I'm not
hearing the other one laughing,
because I don't have access
to it.
So the only pairs that
I'm able to observe
both ends of the
tunnel, of the wormhole,
is the ones that
I can correlate.
So the information
is transferred.
It's just I can't measure it.
Right?
>> Yeah.
Thank you very much.
>> Yeah, my pleasure.
>> How do you arrive at
the Planck pixel as being
the smallest particle?
And what does that have to do
with the uncertainty principle?
>> So I arrive to it--
that's a good question.
I arrived to it as a result
of the size of the universe,
as a result of the
scale of the universe.
Think of the scale
of the universe
has the longest wavelength.
And then you chop
it down, and chop it
down, and go through all the
harmonics, the scale harmonics.
And then when you get
to the speed of light
in the wavelength, you
get to the Planck size.
And so that produces
a fundamental limit
at the smallest scale.
That produces the fundamental
pixel of creation.
>> It's similar to the
Millikan oil drop experiment,
arriving at the size of the
electron, or mass electron.
>> That's right.
>> OK.
>> Very same charge, excuse me.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
And the second part
of your question?
>> How is it related to
the uncertainty principle?
>> Oh, right.
So it relates to the uncertainty
principle in the sense
that the uncertainty
occurs in our equation
because we don't have
access to the whole network.
And since the thing is
completely entangled,
you can think of an
electron as being
everywhere at the same time.
So it sucks to try to figure
out exactly where it is.
So when you try to
pinpoint where it is,
you can't figure out
where it's going.
And when you pinpoint
where it's going,
you have no idea where it is
because it's all entangled.
So uncertainty creeps
in the equations.
>> Thank you.
Brilliant, brilliant lecture.
I appreciate it.
[APPLAUSE]
There's no more question.
You guys figured it all out.
>> I have one.
>> OK, over there.
Oh.
You might have to fight for it.
>> Thank you.
This question is actually in
response to the Einstein's 2013
paper on vacuous
photon production
producing a steady state.
Since he's not here, you
get to answer it for me.
So I was under the
impression that in order--
well, first of all, our
universe is expansive.
It's expanding.
But also, in order to create
or extract energy, at least,
out of a vacuous space,
you need a disequilibrium.
So I am trying to understand
how to bridge the gap of both
the necessity to have both,
one side either expanding
or contracting at
equilibrium state,
and also, this
steady state concept.
If you could please elaborate.
>> OK, yeah.
This is a really good question.
And that's just not--
I'm going to try to give
you a simple answer.
It's not a simple answer.
And that's because
the universe is
vastly more complex
in its mechanics
than our simple models.
And that's an error
we've done in assessing
the expansion of the universe.
So you can have two things.
Well, you can have
a bunch things,
but at least you
can have two things.
One is that you can have--
think of the bubble of
the universe expanding.
So you can have this
linear expansion, right?
But inside the expansion, you
can have things expanding away
from each other as they
circulate inside that expanding
bubble.
Do you see that?
So that from any point of
view inside the movement--
like, think of the
stars in the galaxy.
You know, we know they
go from the galactic disk
out into the halo, and then
they go up into the halo.
And then they come back
down and then go around.
So from any of the
perspectives inside there,
we could see objects
moving away from us
as they expand to the
halo bubble of the galaxy.
So it would all be blueshift--
it would all be redshifted with
very little blue shifted stuff.
And it would look
like expansion to us.
Right?
And then at the same time
that this is circulating,
the bubble could be
linearly expanding as well
until it reaches equilibrium
in the new density state
when it escaped
the other universe.
The proton escaped this
huge pressure differential.
All the information
inside expands it out.
And then it slows--
well, it accelerates
for a long time.
And then eventually, it would
find the equilibrium and stop.
But the dynamics inside that
universe would continue.
And it would still
look like expansion.
>> So you're saying that both
his paper and your paper take
into account both the
redshift of the expansion,
and then on the inverse side
of the hyper-superluminal
component that's
going blueshift.
So it's all one component.
And so that's why
it's a net zero?
>> That's right.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah, very good.
Wow, great questions.
We're getting a technical
crowd over here.
Laurie, my favorite
dentist in the world.
Yeah, Dr. Laurie.
>> Is it true that you practiced
breatharianism through--
>> It is.
I was a breatharian
for three years.
And I was-- you know,
I just basically forgot
to eat for a while.
And then it occurred
to me that, hey, I'm
writing equations saying
the whole thing is
living on the vacuum.
So like, why am I eating?
Right?
So I just kept on going because
it was a hell of a lot cheaper,
and I didn't have much money.
So it was really a
result of a need.
Right?
And so, you know, for the most
part of the three-year period,
either didn't eat at all or I
ate very little, drank water.
And then for the last six
months of that period,
I barely drank any water.
I got to get out of here?
So yeah, it is possible
to live directly
of the structure of the vacuum.
When you're ingesting
the material world,
you're ingesting
the vacuum energy
that you're extracting
from it to feed the vacuum
energy inside your body that
you're losing as your body
radiates thermodynamically.
You can bypass that.
And it's been done by
many people at this point.
At the time, I didn't know
that was called breatharianism
or anything like that.
I just did by necessity.
But many people around the
world are doing it now.
It's remarkable.
And it's being studied by
very serious scientists.
And it's been shown that
you can feed directly
of the structure of space.
So you know, that's an
interesting possibility.
And it shows that you
can create technology
that does the exact same thing.
You can create technology.
And it does not violate
the laws of physics.
It does not violate
conservation.
It's just that there's
technology, just like the body,
that can extract energy from
the field of energy that was not
known to be there before.
Right?
Just like before Faraday, he
moved a magnet over a coil
and realize he could
get an electric field,
it was unknown that there
was an energy such as this
that could be extracted.
Right?
We're just
discovering new levels
of that energy, which
are nothing different
than the magnetic field in
a permanent magnet moving
across a coil.
That is just as much vacuum
energy as any other energy
because the magnetic
field of that magnet
comes from the protons
and electrons that
makes up the magnet.
And those guys are getting
it from the vacuum.
So it's already all there.
We just got to plug
in to the vacuum power
and go for the stars.
So thank you so much, everybody.
I love you all.
And until next time, may
the vacuum be with you.
[APPLAUSE, CHEERING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]